I want you to remember that God,
God's created everything you see.
He breathed it into existence.
You remember when his people were
caught up in slavery, he rescued them.
What he did was he parted the sea.
And he made a way for them and then he
delivered their enemies to them and he
unlocks wounds and he provides water from
a rock and he provides man of from heaven,
and he brought down the walls of Jericho.
He froze the sun, allowing victory.
He's topple giants with tiny stones.
He's brought fire from heaven.
The mouths of lions.
He preserved life in the belly of a well.
He's fed thousands with a few lows.
He gives the weak strength.
He heals the sick.
He's made the blind sea, the deaf
beer, the mute speak to let him
walk, and he's overcome evil.
And he's made a way through death
for you and me by the death and the
resurrection as a son, Jesus Christ,
that we will live with him forever.
We will dwell in the house
of the Lord forever and ever.
And ever and ever.
What are we afraid?
His resume is flawless.
He controls everything and he loves you.
Well, it is, uh, definitely
different being in this space.
So I know for some of you, this may be the
first time you've ever been here and this.
Just as new to you as it is to us.
So welcome to our first service
again here in the Y M C A.
One of the things that's so funny
is, um, I was talking with Matt, so
Matt does our music and media and,
uh, he says We're gonna do everything
we can this week to break something,
which means like, so we know what's
going on, how the space is gonna work.
Well, good news we did, didn't
break it, it just stopped working
the right side of the speaker.
If you didn't notice that in the music.
So those of you on the, you know, I
guess it'd be your right side here.
You didn't hear half the
music at This still is.
Uh, we figured it out.
What it is, just like any technology,
you just turn it off and turn it back on.
That's about all I know what
to do with stuff, and that's
what they did and it worked.
So, um, we officially broke something
that success and we'll keep trying.
So, um, excited about today,
getting the opportunity to share
with you outta the book of Joshua.
We're gonna be in the book of Joshua
chapter one in the first nine verses.
Um, and, uh, God just kind of gave
me this text as I began to think
through, um, moving into a new space.
and uh, thinking about the changes
that are coming and what's gonna
happen and man, are we prepared?
And, and then it just made me
think about Joshua cuz Joshua.
Um, took over for Moses and he was
leading the people into the promised Land.
So just so you know, I'm not comparing
us to like that journey cuz that's
pretty significant and some things.
But we can learn, let's put it this way,
we can learn from their journey in that.
And so, um, one of the things that
we're gonna highlight through this
as we walk through this is the idea
of the priority of the word of God,
the priority of the word of God.
So I wanna ask this question.
Have you ever felt guilty for not
prioritizing something in your life?
Anybody?
I mean, for some of us it's like, I'm,
I, I need to prioritize fitness, you
know, I need to prioritize health.
I need to prioritize family.
Um, and maybe even some of you
are very similar to me, where it's
like, man, I need to prioritize
prayer and get into the word.
But something always
seems to stop us, right?
We, we get too busy.
Um, there, there's something about, uh,
whatever we're saying we need to priorit.
We don't have enough time or
we don't have enough effort.
Um, and when I think about this idea of
not having enough time, usually that's
one of the things that I'll hear myself
say is I just don't have enough time.
Uh, I heard this from Vance Pittman.
He said this one time, he says, if
there's more on your to-do list,
then you have time to complete.
Then there's something on
that list that God didn't put.
. And that really challenged
me because it's that idea.
So you guys know this, I am a list maker.
Like I like writing down
everything I need to do.
The thing that's always interesting.
I never get it all done.
And, and that challenges me and the idea
of going like, what am I doing on this?
Or what am I putting on this list
that's just not valuable for me in
this season of life or in this day.
Um, and what is it that I'm putting
there that God's not putting?
And so, um, again, I love asking
questions before we jump into this text.
I love asking questions when it comes
to the word of God, and we talk about
needing to prioritize the word of God.
What, what do you struggle
with the most when it comes
to getting to the word of God?
I'll start first because
then you guys won't feel like
you're the only ones talking.
I struggle prioritizing God's word.
What usually distracts me from it
is when I do say, oh, I need this,
and I get into the word of God.
I will catch myself literally stopping.
and starting to scroll social
media, stopping and making lists
of things I need to do, and all of
a sudden I'm going, what happened?
So I get easily distracted
by the things around us.
So what stops you from prioritizing
the word of God in your life?
What do you guys stro with?
What stops you?
Anybody worried?
Distractions.
What was life?
No brain power.
That's usually the end of the day for me.
If I ever say I'm gonna read at the
end of the day, that's funny because
that's just not gonna happen usually
cuz I don't have the brain power.
Right.
Um, so I would even say this at times,
being motivated to prioritizing the word.
Sometimes it's because, does
anybody ever understand that?
Like the word is confusing.
So I'm walking through a Bible plan.
Um, I'm in, uh, Leviticus, the
back end of Exodus, Leviticus,
and I'm like, Ugh, this is boring.
. And here's the thing, it's good stuff
cuz it's genealogies and it helps us
understand how to get to, you know, Jesus
and the story of everything we needed.
But it's like, ah, really this chapter.
And so I get it.
Sometimes it's confusing, but I
wanna ask the other side, because I
don't wanna just think negative here.
What do you enjoy the most
about studying the word of God?
What do you enjoy the most?
Anybody.
What's that?
Peace.
That's awesome.
What else?
Yes.
Like when God just like, ah.
. Right.
Anything else?
Rush perspective?
Absolutely.
I think as we begin to get into the word,
if you have spent time getting into the
word and prioritizing it in your life,
you'll see God speaking directly to you.
It is life changing.
Um, but I, I would say this, I think
most of us at times in our lives and
in our seasons, uh, have struggled
with the idea of seeing the value
of reading and studying the word of.
Um, and, and so I just kinda wanna
give you a couple of examples here.
Think about this.
Does anybody struggle to desire to sleep?
Like, I love sleeping.
I didn't sleep much last
night, but I love sleeping.
Oh, let me just, let me step
out to those who love food.
Does anybody struggle to actually eat?
I mean, like, I like eating
and we all probably try to eat
at least three times a day.
And if you're me, it's.
. Okay.
Because we like eating.
So it's not hard to prioritize sleep.
It's not hard to PR unless
you have a young baby.
And that's different, okay?
Uh, but it's not hard to prioritize
sleep in eating because it's,
it's a natural desire in our lives
to fulfill a need that we have.
Does that make sense?
So if I sleep, I wake up in a better
mood and this is gonna keep falling.
Um, I wake up in a better mood.
Um, if I eat, I'm not, uh, Betty
White where I need a Snickers, right?
Those things are valuable to.
. So I wanna flip this a little bit.
When we prioritize the
word of God, what if?
What if we thought about, man, if I don't
get into the word of God, then it is
going to be something lacking in my life.
Like lacking of sleep,
like lacking of food.
And I think what happens is, is we have
seasons, we'll get into the word of God
and it really fuels us and it changes
our lives and we're prioritizing it.
And man, it's just going great.
And then distractions.
And it gets us away from it and it
makes us think that, you know, all
these other things on our list are
more important than the word of God.
I, I would, I really just wanna
challenge you today as we jump into
this, that number one, you're not alone.
Cuz I'm, I struggle as well, even
as a pastor at times, to get into
the word of God and prioritize it
because I feel like I'm a doer, right?
I love doing things, which means
that I, at times, I prioritize doing
things over spending time with Jesus.
And I get those mixed up where I need to
spend time with Jesus to know what to.
And so we're gonna see this where
Joshua was challenged by God to
prioritize the word of God, right?
To prioritize the word of God.
So I'm hoping that we'll
learn a valuable lesson.
So let me just give you a quick background
and then we're gonna read, because I
don't wanna just jump off in Joshua
and you say, Hey, how did we get here?
So just remember Genesis, EXUS,
Leviticus, numbers, Deuteronomy.
Joshua Judges.
I think I got that right.
Somewhere in there.
Okay.
What happened before then?
So we know that obviously
creation happened.
We have, uh, the fall happened,
we have Noah and the flood, and
we have all these things, right?
But you guys remember the
character Abraham, right?
God promised Abraham that he
would make his descendants
as many as the stars, right?
And, uh, he promised all these things.
And one of the things that he promised
is that as he would make them as many
as the stars, that one day they would
be enslaved for 400 years before that
they would experience this promised
land that God had promised Abraham.
Um, and we're, so, we're kind of coming
outta that story where Moses, while the,
the people of Israel, uh, were enslaved
in Egypt for 400 years, Moses was
called by God to lead the people out of.
Egypt to the Promised Land.
Um, and so there's a cool
stories with that, right?
Where all these plagues happen.
And finally Pharaoh lets them go and they
go and they get to the Red Sea and God
parts the Red Sea, and they walk on dry
land and they go on the other side and
they're cheering and they're celebrating
because God had defeated their enemy.
Um, but what we see a lot of times
with the Israelites, it's the
same thing we see with ourselves.
They begin to complain and
grumble because they had forgot
what God had done for them.
And so Moses began to lead these
people towards the Promised
Land, but there came this.
Where God said, go take the land, and the
majority of the people of Israel said no.
And so at that moment, God said, anybody
20 years and older would wander in the
wilderness and tell their death before
the next generation would inherit.
The the promised Lamb.
And so this is where we're picking
up at the end of Moses's life.
God, at something that Moses had done
in his life, God said you would not
experience the Promised Land, which
means this Moses would not lead the
people of Israel into the Promised Lamb,
so he was going to die, and when he
died, there needed to be somebody that.
Stepped up somebody that got appointed to
lead the people into the promised Land.
So I know it kind of did a quick
summary, but that's where we're at.
Joshua was being appointed as that person
to lead the people into the promised land.
And so we're gonna pick up
here and read, um, this text.
So let's read it here.
Joshua chapter one, verse one says
this, after the death of Moses, the Lord
servant, the Lord spoke to Joshua, son of.
Moses's assistant Moses,
my servant is dead.
Now you and all the people prepared
to cross over the Jordan to the
land I'm giving the Israelites.
I have given you every place where
the soul of your foot treads, just as
I promise Moses, your territory will
be from the wilderness and Lebanon.
To the great river of the Euphrates
River and all the land of the
Hittites and West to the Mediterranean
Sea, no one will be able to stand
against you as long as you live.
And I will be with you
just as I was with Moses.
And I will not leave you or abandon you.
Be strong and courageous for you will
distribute the land I swore to their
fathers to give them an inheritance.
Above all, be strong and
very courageous to observe
carefully the whole instruction.
My servant Moses commanded you Do not
turn to it to the right or to the left so
that you will have success wherever you.
This book of instruction must
not depart from your mouth.
You are to meditate on it day and
night so that you may carefully observe
everything written in it for then you'll
prosper and succeed in whatever you do.
Haven't I commanded you?
Be strong, courageous.
Do not be afraid or discourage for the
Lord your God is with you wherever you go.
Let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we pray as we read your
word and as we dive in deeper, Lord,
that our hearts and minds are open to
be changed, Lord, that we can leave
outta here, uh, filled out by your
word and, uh, sent out to go experience
more and more of you and to be able to
share that love, um, with other people.
And so we just pray this
in your heaven name.
So as we look at this book of Joshua,
it's really a book of new beginnings,
um, right new beginning for them
because they're going into a new land.
And I started thinking just like
where we are at as a church,
but also in the new year.
So this is personally,
but also as a church.
As a church, we're moving into
a new space as an individual.
It's a new year, and most of us who here
has set some sort of a New Year's goal.
Anybody, couple people, right?
And if you're like me, you set.
and at some point you forget it.
Right.
We just give up.
We don't, we don't end up doing it.
But I'm hoping, and I'm
believing those who did raise
your hand, you're gonna make it.
I believe in you cuz I said a few as well.
Um, but I, I think of this as this
idea of this new beginnings and it's an
opportunity to kind of push away the past.
And that's what the people
of Israel are doing.
They were pushing away the past
sins and the past disobedience and
they're saying, Hey, we're going full
force ahead into this new promised.
And when we think about this experience
that Joshua and the people of Israel were
going to experience, one of the things
that we're gonna experience was blessing.
And you're gonna see this where God
was going to bless them with the
new land, full of milk and honey.
And a lot of times this
is what he would say.
And I think that's something
that God has for us today.
So my hope is that we will
learn how God encourage.
, uh, Joshua and how God will encourage us.
So we're gonna walk through these
different things in the text and then
we're gonna lean into the priority
of the word of God whenever we get
there in verses seven and eight.
So the first thing we see here is
that Joshua received encouragement
from God's commission, and we
see this in the first two verses
here, where God now says Moses is.
And Joshua Moses assistant will be the
one that leads, right, prepares the people
to give them the new land in Israel.
So at this point, God is
speaking directly to Joshua.
Now that may not seem like much,
and again, if you're anything like
me, we study the word of God and
sometimes we miss these pieces.
But God was literally
speaking directly to Joshua.
How cool.
God.
I mean, I don't know what
his voice sounds like.
Uh, usually it's in my head as
I'm reading the word of God.
It's the spirit of God.
But I don't know what it sounded
like to Joshua, but to hear God
say, Joshua, you are my man.
You're the person that's
gonna lead these people up.
Um, I think that that would be difficult
because he's replacing Moses, which
had done some amazing things, right?
So God was commissioning Joshua to
do three things, lead the people
into the land, defeat the enemy,
and claim the inheritance that
was promised all the way back to.
Seems simple, right?
I mean, maybe, but I don't think it is.
It was not very simple.
If you read the rest of the book,
it was actually pretty difficult.
Um, but God could have sent anyone,
but he chose Joshua and he equipped
him and prepared him for the task.
So I want you to think
about this for a moment.
I love being able to take a step back.
We're gonna learn from
Joshua's call, right?
God commissioned Joshua.
And Joshua was encouraged by that
because God thought so much of him.
Have you ever thought
that God has commissioned.
God has spoke directly
to you through his word.
Uh, if you've given your life to Christ
and that calling, I've given your life to
Christ, God has said, you are important.
You are part of fulfilling the
mission that God has for you.
And as you begin to think
about this, this is God.
This is not just like your boss that
wants to give you a raise or promotion
and you, and you love that, right?
This isn't just your spouse who gives you
a compliment on whatever you're doing.
No.
This is God that is saying,
did, did you realize that I am
calling you, I am commissioning
you into this new season of life.
So for you, it could be the new
year for the new season of life as
a church, God has commissioned us.
I just tell you, that's pretty cool.
I, I think it's really cool that God
lets us be a part of his mission.
He doesn't just say, Hey, sit back.
You know, sit down and stay outta the.
No.
God says, my number one purpose to
fulfill the mission is through you.
So today, as you're thinking
about this New year, right?
This new season as a church,
God has commissioned us and I
think it should be encouraging
to us that God chose us, right?
His mission is to see people come to
know him, and to have a relationship
with him, to see lives restored,
families reunited in cities.
I, you know, you guys have heard us
probably talk about this, but our mission
as a church is to inspire hope by helping
people discover God's purpose for their
life through relationship with Jesus.
We believe as we spend time with Jesus,
as we have a relationship with Jesus,
God will transform our lives to help
people fulfill their God-given purpose.
Just like Joshua.
I think that's so cool that God
has chose us, but does anybody
get a little bit intimidated that,
that you're being put in that.
I mean, if you're anything like me,
the moment that somebody asked me to do
something, I go, how am I gonna do this?
I mean, there's a couple times where
people have asked me to speak at
different events, and I'm like, I'm
not good at speaking at those events.
Like, how am I gonna do this?
And I think you would say that same thing.
Okay.
Maybe you sensed the call that God
has put on your life to be a part
of something bigger this year.
But you may be asking the question,
how am I gonna fulfill this?
How am I going to do this?
What if I mess it up?
Here's the good news.
You can't mess up what God's calling you.
Because God will use you.
God will empower you, and we're
gonna see how he empowered Joshua.
One of the ways that he empowered
Joshua is this next part, and this
is one of my favorite parts of this.
Joshua not only received encouragement
from God's commission, Joshua received
encouragement from God's promises.
See, I look at promises like money.
I can take it to the bank
and they'll accept it.
So God's promises are something I can
take to the bank and proclaim it and live.
. So let's look at some of the promises
that he gave, um, Joshua this.
So in verse three, he says, I
have given you every place where
the soul of your foot tread.
So there's one promise.
Just as I promised Mo Moses, your
territory will be from the wilderness
and the Lebanon to the great river of
Euphrates River and the land of the
Hittites and the Mediterranean Sea.
Then he says this, verse five
is one of the biggest ones.
Verse five says, no one will
be able to stand against you.
That's a promise as long as you live.
Number two, I will be with
you just as I was with Moses.
There's two.
Number three, I will not
leave you or abandon you.
When I look at those promises,
I, I, I couldn't help but be
encouraged if I was Joshua.
If, if Joshua was sitting there
listening to God and God promised him
these things, he had to be empower.
At that moment because Joshua got to
spend some time with Moses and watch how
God's promises to Moses were fulfilled.
And so that's the thing for me.
At times, God's promises may not mean much
to you until you actually experience them.
And as you experience them, it's
easier to believe and know that
God will fulfill his promises.
And so many times we live
on the promises of God.
, even though we don't fully understand
how God's gonna fulfill them.
There's many moments in my life and
I bet you there's many moments in
your life in faith, you believed
God for something, even though you
didn't know how God was gonna do it.
This church is a great example of it.
We didn't know how God was gonna do
it, but somehow he took six people.
And as it doesn't look mu much
today, they're all online.
Love you guys.
Um, God has done something
amazing in this church and
that's just one of the examples.
But here's the thing.
When we trust God's promises and
step out by faith, you can be
sure that the Lord will give you
the directions that you need.
I'll give you some examples here.
I remember whenever I really,
since like God was calling me into,
into, um, pastoral ministry, but
I didn't know what that meant.
And I kept asking everybody for questions.
I asked my pastor for questions, asked
the student pastor for questions.
I asked my wife, cuz she's
always knowledgeable.
Um, and, and nobody could give
me a really defined answer.
And there was this moment.
God, just, I felt like he whispered
to me, and here's what he says.
He said, show me your faith
and I'll show you the way.
See, I wanted the plan.
I wanted him to hand me,
you'll do this, this, this, and
this, and success will happen.
And what God said was, my word is enough.
My promises were enough.
And in that moment, I committed
to surrendered ministry and
didn't know what that meant.
And God has taken me as
far as he's taken me.
And I believe that will be the
same thing for all of us In faith.
We accept God's promises and we'll see.
If you were to study the rest of the
book of Joshua, we won't do that.
Uh, but you can definitely
do this on your own.
You'll see God fulfilling each
one of those promises, right?
But before he could fi those
promises, you'll see in here he
says to be strong and courageous.
And, um, just, just so you, you
think through this a little bit.
Someone once said this and I, I, I
really thought this was really good.
God's promises are prods, not pillows.
Me.
Lemme say that again.
God's promises are prods, not pillows.
What's a prod?
Anybody know what a prod is?
You poke like, usually a
lot of times it's animals.
Get them move, you know, moved
down the gate or wherever.
If you've ever had any of that.
If not, um, look it up.
But think about this.
God's promises isn't for us.
Just sit and wait until he fulfills
him the really encouragements to go.
So I, I, I, I've used some examples
before, but think about this.
If you knew tomorrow, whatever
you felt like God was calling
you to do, go start a nonprofit.
Go quit your job and
be a stay-at-home mom.
Move to a foreign country.
Go talk to a neighbor and chair
the gospel with whatever it is.
If you knew you would be
successful 100% of the time, would.
I may have not hit wherever
you're at, but would you go
and most of us say Absolutely.
I would go because it was guaranteed.
Let me take a step back here.
God's promises are not pillows to
rest on, but prods to go after.
Many of us are missing out on God's
promises and what he has for us because
we are waiting rather than going in faith.
Just like Joshua, they would've
never experienced the promised.
. And one of the stories we won't even get
to is the priests that were carrying the
arc in order for the water to part, in
order to go across the Jordan, all of the
priests feet had to be in the water before
it would part or naturally not part, but
it would go up, up, up, short or up river.
Um, and when you think about that picture,
this was during the flood season, that
water was not trickling and it was easy to
just jump in and yeah, it's gonna recede.
No, it was pouring.
And they had to in faith, step
in and in moment that they.
It was dry ground.
And I always share this picture that
dry ground was not muddy ground.
That, you know, if water
receded, it would be muddy.
It was dry as dust.
I believe it because that's what God does.
That's what God does.
And these are the cool things when
we think about the encouragement
that Joshua would get to, to rely
on his promises and what we can
get and rely on God's promises.
And these are things that I
know I've experienced in my
life over and over again.
Many of you have probably
experienced in your life as.
I'll just give you one example.
I remember whenever me and my wife,
we had just started attending church
and the church was 45 minutes away.
Um, and I was new, new to my faith,
and we were getting involved and
we had this sense we needed to
move closer to our church, but we
didn't know how we were gonna do it.
We had no clue how we were
gonna do it, but we needed
to move closer to our church.
So we are like, okay, we're
gonna start looking for homes.
So we start looking for
homes closer to the.
And we found some that were
almost two times the amount of
our current house and were like,
there's no way we could afford it.
Well come to figure out the cool
part cuz at that time, not what
we're dealing with right now.
The house we were in had such a high
interest rate and all the newer houses
had a lot lower interest rate, lower
insurance rates, um, everything was lower.
We actually found out that we could
pay less to live in the house.
That we could live near the.
Than the one we were
living 45 minutes away.
So we sold that house and we moved
into that house and that was part of
us getting involved in the church and
part of God's transforming power to call
us to ministry and all these things.
Right?
And I think of those things where God
provided, we really had this sense that,
God, but that would've been crazy, right?
To, to move closer to the church.
That's the only reason
why you're gonna move us.
Move closer to your church.
God did something through that.
And I just think, what if we didn't do it?
What if we said no, we're just gonna
wait And, and I don't know where I'd be.
Maybe I'd still be in that same.
God's doing this over and over again.
God encourages us as we
fulfill his mission right by
reminding us of his promises.
God's commission encourages us.
God's promise encourages us.
And here's one of the
things I wanna hang out on.
God, excuse me, not God.
Joshua received encouragement
from God's written word, right?
Let's look at this, verse seven.
Above all, and this is why I love it.
Again, he's walking through
these nine verses and then
he uses this word above all.
So to me it's like, say all
these other things are great,
but let's lean in right here.
This is God speaking to Joshua.
Above all, be strong and
very courageous to observe
carefully the whole instruction.
My servant Moses community.
Do not turn from it to the
right or to the left so that you
have success wherever you go.
This book of instruction must
not depart from your mouth.
You are to meditate on it day and.
So that you may be carefully able
to observe everything written
in it for then you will prosper
and succeed in whatever you do.
You may look at this and we'll see
these two things where he says that
you'll be successful and you'll
be prosperous wherever you go.
No, I'm not preaching
the prosperity gospel.
You know what I, I'm preaching
the promised Gospel prosperity,
gospel promises, always
health, wealth, and prosperity.
No matter what you do, as long as.
Do things for the Lord.
What I would say is the promise Gospel
promises that God will fulfill his
mission through you, and you'll be
a part of building his kingdom and
experiencing the kingdom of God now and
forever if you fall after his promises.
See, you may be missing that, but
I, I look at this, and I love this.
If we prioritize the word of God, which
means we know more about God and we begin
to apply the word of God in faith, we will
experience success, we will prosper and.
What we think of succeeding may be
Paul in a prison, but Paul believed he
succeeded because he even said this,
and I don't remember what book it is.
He says this, I actually am happy that I'm
in prison because it seems like that the
gospel is spreading more, which means he's
successful even though he's in prison.
See, our definition of success
is different than the world's,
and I think that's the hard part.
For most of us, our success
is different than the worlds.
But he says this, and I
think it's so important.
He says, be strong and very courage.
And whenever I think about that being
strong and very courageous, he's talking
about being strong and very courageous
to remember the word, not just in going
out in faith, but in studying the word.
So we go back to the priority of the word
as if you wanna prioritize the word of
God in your life and see transformation,
it's going to take being strong and
very courageous, which means this,
you're gonna have to consistently.
The distractions.
You're gonna have to consistently
fight all the to-do lists and all
the other things that you have
prioritized before the word of God.
In order to get into the word of God.
It's not going to be easy.
That's why he said this.
He's not just saying, going in
faith, be strong and very courageous.
He's saying to prioritize the word,
you're going to have to be strong
and courageous, which means this.
It's gonna take more
than just, uh, I should.
It's gonna be, I need to because
it's going to transform my life.
I need it as much as I need sleep,
I need it as much as I need food, I
need it as much as I need anything.
Right?
So Joshua's strength encouraged though,
would come from the word of God.
So the more that you're in the word,
the more that you are strengthened and
encouraged to get back in the word.
So go back to that idea
of sleeping and eating.
. It nourishes us when we sleep and eat.
It refreshes us.
The word of God nourishes us, empowers us,
and gives us a strength to go fulfill and
proclaim and experience God's promises.
So he says this, what does meditate mean?
Right?
Most of us probably know the little, Hmm.
You know, you could do that.
That's that's great.
And that's part of it.
But if we think about meditation,
it's to think deeply on or focus
one's mind for a period of.
And I love this in silence or with
aid of repeating, you'll, you'll
catch me sometimes talking to myself.
And it's not because I'm
just weird cuz that's true.
But a lot of times I'm repeating
God's word over my life.
So just trying to be a
little bit transparent.
I didn't sleep well at all
last night, like a, at all.
I don't know why.
I think maybe the enemy was just trying to
do something just like, I mean I, it was
bad and I just kept repeating God's word
over my life that he has something for.
Me today.
For you today, there's a
reason why we need to be here.
And then I opened up my garage, didn't
even realize it snowed as much as it did.
And I'm like, okay, Lord, are you sure?
I, I mean, I don't have much rest.
And there's snow on the ground.
And he's like, no, there's something here
for each one of us and we're all here.
And so I'm just, I'm leaning
in a little bit and going,
okay, God's doing something.
But the only way that I could
remember that is by repeating and
meditating on God's word to remind
me that God is doing something.
So when we think about meditating in
God's word, it's to, to read it daily,
to think on it daily to repeat it.
And I love this part to make
it part of the inner person.
It.
If you ever read something and then
you're like, I gotta reread that page,
cuz I didn't even consume it at all.
To make it in the inner person is
to actually consume it, to eat it.
And then it becomes a part of you.
And if it's a part of you, which
means then as you go out throughout
your day, you remember it because
you have it with you, right?
You have it with.
Um, just to kind of even think about
this, uh, Warren Weby said this.
He says, if you don't talk to your
Bible, your Bible won't talk to you.
And you may think that's kind
of funny, but it's those moments
where you're reading and sometimes
you have to kind of talk it out.
You have to think about it.
Right.
Um, and I, I think it's,
it's so important here.
So at the end of verses seven
A, again, he talks about this
prosperity or this a success, right?
And these blessings are a byproduct
of the devotion to the word of.
Again, success is different in the world.
And, um, I, I believe success
is defined by obedience.
Right?
And out of that obedience comes blessing.
And so, lemme give you another quote.
I love different quotes here,
but Johnny Hunt said this.
He said, make earth your aim and
you'll maybe get it, make heaven your
aim, and you'll get earth thrown in.
It's that idea behind a lot of the
things that we do in life is to.
Experience a worldly kingdom, right?
And if you're anything like me, we're
looking under retirement accounts and
wondering, are we ever gonna make it?
Are we ever gonna retire?
Right?
Um, but the idea is we're,
we're thinking about that.
We're thinking about our health, we're
thinking about our kids' activities.
I have four kids and I
totally get it right.
We're thinking about every single thing
else, and we're prioritizing that.
Whenever we look at this and we say,
oh, Success is really defined by
following Jesus first, and all those
things come through that, right?
Then I look at my kids' activities.
I look at everything else that I
do in my life and it flows through
that if we'll seek first the kingdom
of God, he says in Matthew six
that he will provide what we need.
So speaking of blessing, success, right?
Joshua had a choice to
fulfill his purpose.
God had given him.
Command.
He was encouraging him
through the promises.
He was reminding him and encouraging him
through the word and prioritizing that.
But Joshua had to say, yes,
Joshua had to go and do, and
God, he had to follow through.
Cuz again, we can read the word of
God every day, but if we don't take
it and apply it, um, it's worthless.
And I, I, again, there's
another quote from Johnny Hunt.
He said this, he says, we can study God's.
for years and years and years, but one
step or one act of obedience is worth
more than years of studying about it.
I'll say that again.
We can study God's word for years
and years and years, but one step or
one act of obedience is more worth
more than years of studying about it.
That challenged me.
I, I'm to this day.
I can remember when I heard that quote.
I was moaning in my backyard nine years
ago, and that just, I stopped and I
wrote it down, and that just challenged
me because I wanna be a faith doer.
I wanna follow after God.
I don't just want.
I want to experience God and I
wanna experience his promises.
So going back to this again,
Joshua had to fill his promise.
So let me just, as we're kind
of heading towards the end
here, I'm trying to get there.
If you're here today, if you're
online, do you really want to
fill God's purpose in your life?
Do you, do you wanna, whatever your
divine purpose is, why you were created?
Do you wanna fulfill it?
Do you wanna discover what that is
and go out and live with anybody?
Okay, some of you do.
Some of you may be question.
. But I would say this, it starts
with prioritizing God's word.
And I wanna challenge you with this.
I, I don't know, I think we had this up
here, uh, something that I've been meaning
to send out to our, all of our church,
but we have the read scripture app.
Um, the Read scripture app is something
that I'm walking through this year.
I love it.
Um, it is giving you videos to watch, to
kind of set up each chapter of the Bible.
It's a, it's walking you
through the whole Bible as well.
But I believe this, and I, I said this
a couple weeks ago in our Vision Sunday,
if you will prioritize the word of.
, everything else will fall into line.
And what do I mean by fall into line?
You'll discover God's
purpose for your life.
You'll fulfill your call.
You'll do what you need to do.
If you'll prioritize the
word of God, guarantee this.
I've seen it in my life.
I've seen it in other people's life.
If you'll do that, we don't
have to worry about the rest.
And what do I mean by that?
We'll, we'll be challenging you
to take other steps, but the
word of God will prompt you and
we'll help you fulfill that.
And as a church, I wanna
continue to say this.
If you need something to guide you on
where to read, do the Read scripture app.
That's what I'm doing this year.
It is encouraging.
, but I know this, that you
may ask, what do I gain?
If I read the word of
God, what will you gain?
I, I can't probably give you
that to a T, but I can tell you
a couple things that you'll lose.
Here's what you'll lose.
Anger, jealousy, selfishness, greed,
envy, lust when you're in the word
of God and it reminds you of what
God has done for you, what God
has forgiven you of, and if you're
struggling with any of those things,
this isn't a guaranteed gone forever.
. This is means we need to continue
being the word of God so that it
helps us overcome these things.
So those are some of the things that
you'll lose, but I'll, I'll let's
just use the fruits of the spirit
that what God will give you to
replace that, because I believe this.
It's not about saying no to sin.
It's about saying yes to Jesus.
Because if we say yes to Jesus, sin tends
typically goes to the back, and we begin
to prioritize what God gives us, right?
He gives us the fruit of the spirit,
love, joy, peace, patience, kindness,
generosity, gentleness, and self-control.
I love when the spirit of.
Through the word of God
empowers me to live for God.
I love it.
I love seeing what God does and, and it
seems like when I'm in the word of God, I
tend to do more in a way that honors God
and gives me fulfillment for my purpose.
Let me just give you a couple examples.
I coach.
It's not technically CrossFit, but
I coach, uh, at a gym here locally.
And, uh, one of the things when I go
in there, I typically ask God, who is
it here that needs to be encouraged?
And I'm usually looking for the person
that's standing by themselves that's
less confident, and I basically begin
to speak life in them, encouraging
where the them, where they're at to
try to build them up where they are.
God just has done something
to my heart to remember that.
, but also the other day.
This is really challenging.
This isn't a pat on my back.
This is the spirit of God working
through the word of God to transform
and use me for his purposes.
I'm driving home from a
meeting, driving home.
I'm, I'm, I'm tired, I'm ready to go home.
And the Lord said, you need
to stop by this school.
Go in and tell this one person in
the school that you love him, that
you believe in them and give 'em.
And I'm like, ah, I don't
really wanna do that.
I didn't call and tell 'em I'm gonna come.
So we're really in the schools.
We're involved in the schools
doing a lot of different things.
So you know what?
I turned left, went out of the way, went
to the school, buzzed in, they said, who?
Who is this?
I told 'em, Hey, it's
pastor man coming in.
Okay, great.
So I walked in, found the
person, said, I believe in you.
I love you.
And I gave him a hug and
that person needed it.
They said, oh my gosh, like
you chose a perfect day.
And it's those moments where it's
like, what if I didn't show up?
What if I just said, And again, this,
it's, it's, I, I'm just going back
to the word of God was so inside of
my life that as I'm beginning to live
out my life, rather than to choose
self, I chose to fulfill my calling.
I believe one of my callings
in life is to be an encourager.
I love to encourage and believe in people.
So what is it for you?
What is it that God is calling you to do?
What is it that you need
to to begin to prioritize?
Right?
The word of.
But how do we do it in a way that
is fulfilling, not where it's like,
oh, this is what I have to do.
I, I'll just give you this last one
cause I wanna make sure we hit this
point in verse nine, Joshua will
receive also encouragement from the
commandments of God, and he says this
in verse nine, haven't I commanded you?
Be strong and courageous?
Do not be afraid or discouraged
for the Lord your God is with you.
Wherever you go, you will know why.
I think that a lot of times we don't
fulfill our callings in life is because
we lack the strength and courage.
because we're discouraged and afraid
and because we're afraid that God
may not be there wherever we go.
I, I, I.
And why did God say be strong and
courageous three times in nine verses?
Because he understood.
We need to be reminded.
And so I challenge you
with this statement.
Whatever we think on, right?
Whatever we think on, we believe
so sometimes we just need to.
Over and over again.
Be strong and courageous.
Be strong and courageous to
get into the word of God.
And as you're strong and courageous
to get in the word of God, God will
get you rid of that discouragement
and that things that you're afraid
of, and he'll remind you that
he'll be with you wherever you go.
So God's commandments are God's
enablements to obey him in faith.
Just loving, loving this.
This idea of the, uh, in Luke
1 37, the angel said to Mary,
for with God nothing is Im.
See that story of, of Jesus' birth
is, is something that would seem
impossible, but even God could do that.
The word of God is powerful.
And anytime Joshua would be tempted or
afraid to lead these people into the
promised land, he could remember what
God said, be strong and courageous.
He could remember God's defined
commission that he sent him on, that
his presence would be be with him.
So for you, I, I don't
know what you need today.
I don't know what encouragement you.
, but, but can I say this?
If you'll take one thing, because
I said a lot today, if you'll take
one thing, prioritizing the word of
God should not be something that you
feel guilty cuz you're not doing.
It should be something as an
opportunity, just like an opportunity
to go eat when we're done here
cuz I'm excited about that.
So let's take my boys to Mexican.
I love some Mexican, right?
I'm excited to go do that now.
Seriously, I am.
But I also should be excited about
getting the word of God because
I know that it will transform my.
When you think about this again, new year,
when you look back from a year now, from
now, like 20, 24, January, do you want
to be in the same place you are today?
I mean, maybe you do.
I don't.
I wanna grow.
I wanna know Jesus more.
I wanna experience his transforming life.
I wanna proclaim his promises.
I wanna experience his
promises, and I pray you do too.
God didn't save you to stay where you are.
He saved.
For a purpose, just like Joshua's
purpose, to go out and live, inspired
to be changed, to be different.
So God's word is for us to
be strong and courageous.
Let's prioritize the word this week.
Let's prioritize the word every day.
And if you need encouragement,
if you need direction, this
isn't me just saying go do it.
This is me saying reach out.
I may not know Everyth.
So I may be like, Hey
Amanda, what are you doing?
I may say, Hey Matt, what are you doing?
I may say, Laura, what are you doing?
Let's work together to help each
other get into the word of God.
We are the body of Christ, but
this means that we don't just
say, Hey, go do and walk away.
We are a family.
Let's do this together.
So let me help.
Let somebody else help
and walk alongside you.
So let's pray.
So, Lord Jesus, we thank you so much.
That you've given this opportunity to
be here today to open up your word for
those who are online, to be able to meet
online, to be able to hear this message.
Lord, um, I pray that you are honored
in everything that is said and done.
And Lord, I just pray that you give us
encouragement, just like you gave Joshua.
Lord, I pray that you give us
encouragement in your commission,
Lord, in your promises, in your
word, in your commandments.
I pray that you give.
A lot of encouragement, Lord, because I
know each one of us needs to be strong
and courageous as we dive into your
word and prioritize it in our lives.
Lord, help us Lord not
look at the word of God.
Um, Lord, like we look
at eating vegetables.
Oh, that's what I should do, Lord.
I pray that we look at the word of God
and we see something that is beautiful,
something that can fill us and nourish
us and empower us to fulfill our purpose.
This side of.
Lord Jesus, we want to see transformation
in this church, in this city, in
the Y M C A and around our lives.
But Lord, I know that there are people
in this room, Lord, that may not know
you, Lord, that they're hearing this idea
behind prioritizing the word of God, Lord.
And I pray if there's someone
in this room, Lord, that doesn't
know you, that today, that they
will give their lives to you in.
Lord, that they'll pray and ask
for forgiveness of their sins, and
they'll pray for you to come into
their lives, transform them, meet with
them, and spend eternity with them.
Lord, Lord, I pray that again.
If there's someone in this room that
needs to give their lives to you,
Lord, that whenever I get done praying,
Lord, and I'm standing in the back of
the, the service, Lord, I pray that
they get up and they come and they
find me and they say, Hey, will you?
Me Lord, I pray If there's a person
in this room or that's struggling to
prioritize the word of God or struggling
in their lives and they need prayer, Lord
I pray that they'll come find me or find
someone else to ask to pray for them.
Lord, we believe in prayer because
we are a prayer founded church.
We are here because you.
Have used the many people in this city
and around the world, Lord, to pray for
a church to be planted here in Hamilton.
And we accepted that call each one of us
that is here today and has joined this
church, Lord has accepted that call to
be a part of building your kingdom here.
Lord, we were built on prayer and
we are founded on prayer, Lord.
And we want to con, continue to pray for
lives to be transformed in this service
today and in the services to come.
So God lead us and guide us
and transform our hearts.
We pray this in your heaven name.
Amen.
So I just wanted you guys to take some
time during this invitation, during the
time that they're seen to reflect and
ask the Lord to give you some wisdom
on how to prioritize the word of God.
And if you do have questions
about giving your life to Jesus,
again, I'm gonna be in the back.
I would love to be able to talk with you.
So let's, let's take some time to do that.